New privacy system could revolutionize the safety of web surfing

To enhance functionality, many of today's web pages are constructed by
assembling third-party building blocks coming from different companies or
independent web developers. For example, web pages often include third-party
maps when displaying locations of interest. The complexity of modern web pages
might cause third-party content to accidentally leak users' private data. To
make things even worse, third-party content can also be malicious, hidden behind
seemingly legitimate web sites. By merely visiting a web page, users can set in
motion pernicious behaviors, which might lead to expose their private data to
unauthorized parties.

Researchers from Chalmers, Google, Mozilla, Stanford University, and University
College of London (UCL) have built a new system called 'Confinement with Origin
Web Labels', or COWL, that protects Internet users’ privacy, while flexibly
allowing web applications to combine content from different web sites. COWL
provides a property known as ‘confinement’, which has been known since the
1970s, but proven difficult to achieve in practical systems like web
browsers. What makes COWL unique is its minimalist design: it naturally extends
the existing web security model with three core concepts on top of which
developers can build privacy preserving web-services. This simplicity, and its
low run-time overhead, are key features making the system attractive to web
developers.

COWL works with Mozilla’s Firefox and the open-source version of Google’s Chrome
web browsers. Testing of COWL prototypes for the Chrome and Firefox web browsers
shows the system provides strong security without perceptibly slowing the
loading speed of web pages. Following today's announcement, COWL will be freely
available for download from http://cowl.ws.

The team behind the development of COWL is composed by PhDs students Deian
Stefan and Edward Z. Yang from Stanford (working in collaboration with Mozilla),
Petr Marchenko from Google (who recently graduated as a PhD from UCL),
Prof. Brad Karp (UCL), Prof. David Mazières (Stanford), and Prof. Alejandro
Russo (Chalmers). Relevant for our institution, COWL's design has been
influenced by results drawing from an active collaboration between Prof. Russo
and Prof. Mazières' teams during the last four years.

-- More details about COWL

* The development team describe COWL in a paper that will appear in the
Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation (OSDI 2014), a premier venue for operating systems research.

https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi14/technical-sessions/presentation/stefan

* Contact:

  Alejandro Russo
  russo@chalmers.se
